# Simondon's Haecceity & the Maxwell-Faraday Equation - Draft 1

*A text to Grant*

Maybe I'm grasping at straws here, but:

Noumenon vs. Haecceity...
Ding an sich vs. genetic difference...
                                         ... insofar as ereignis is NOT a union of these under phenomenology....


No, this doesn't make sense yet -- these are abject fragments rattling around a semi-empty chamber.

To elaborate on "genetic difference" let's talk about groups. A topology doesn't have scalar units so much as an "in group" and an "out group". The difference between these two is axiomatic -- the axioms of group theory give clear rise to category theory. It's like the concept of a category is a form which arises out of the matter that is ~possibility~, or the matter which is an axiomatic system (as category theory is the most general case arising from any axiom which we can easily discuss). But this phrasing presents the form as subsequent to the matter -- there's a contiguity in time between the ground and what grows from it, and surely that can't be! For, if ~back then~ and ~now~ could be cleanly distinguished in an irreversible manner, god's dick would be in his own ass! or smething like that. Then, we must admit the form was coextensive with the matter-- time is a continuity which need not move (but can be seen as moving), and all possible things were at once bound and thrown forth *a priori*. "NO!!!" says Simondon, "the prior condition for the being of a thing (or maybe for a thing to be a thing) is the existence of a metastable system! If we deny this, we place the principle of differentiation -- that is, a being's scattering into form -- before the principle of being! as if a thing had gender before being generated! Ridiculous! God's dick would really be in his ass -- hel, even that wouldn't be right because he wouldn't be a 'he' yet for having fucked himself so hard so early on that he undid the fabric of his being, leaving only a massive cosmic ouroboroschlong! No, being comes prior to beings -- Being is a metastable condition making permissible the occurrence of beings. This is haecceity -- beings standing out against the fabric of existence. Specifically, haecceity is beings' refusal to stand out -- for existence means "to be" and also "to stand out in the open," and the TRUTH of beings is in Being; they withdraw in constellation into ambiguity, they re-sist being ob-ject -- being thrown out in the open --, and that is what makes them exactly what they are as themselves. This is different from the thing-as-such! It is posterior! I'm wrong now, I was doing so good and now my lack of understanding noumena is dickfucking me -- let's go back to the problem with the consideration of haecceity being possible: we have cleft time into a monad and infinite difference. A zap of lightning cracked the head of Kronos and out popped Diogenes, shitting everywher. God's not dead, it's workse-- he's trans! His dick went so far up his ass he thinks himself a matrix -- the mother of all things. What a moron! Simondon comes to the rescue: the distance between the genetic act and gendering -- the time between generation and genus, the dissonance between Being and the ob-ject -- is potential energy, and what we know from Voltage (yes, daddy Zeus makes a comeback) is the curl of the electric field IS the negative time derivative of the magnetic field. This is a spatial moment -- literally, an antisymmetric motion in a local region against time, redefinable as time against space but never to fuck with Energy/matter. This is Maxwell-Faraday -- this is phase lock.
