# Regarding Taste

*Taste Is the New Intelligence - Stepfanie Tyler; 'Good Taste' is a Myth - Leyden Lewis, FastCo*

<hr class="divider">

A cornerstone of my taste is the Gemini protocol. It's an alternative internet to HTTPS. Everything on Gwmini is text based -- the entire Gemini web could probably fit on a 2006 iPod. You can access it from any computer terminal, and navigate it with keystrokes. Why do I love Gemini? It's just people and their words, libking the relations and inspirations shaping them, parsed through a physical interface I adore -- keystrokes. It's one massive webring. Growing up, I'd get lost in either playing the piano or surfing webrings to find stories and underground music communities. A main attractor in Gemini is the lack of visual design -- there's no capacity for visuals; it's like mainlining people's personalities. The invisible and tactile humanity in the poetic moment of one person meeting the words of another's is the core of my personal taste. There is a culture to this -- something demoscene adjacent. I struggle to understand the waya in which it is accessible or inaccessible to myself or others. It's not like with Joyce in ''A Portrait...' where he critiques the university for disceiminating people's vernaculars as improper language. However egalitarian the Spartan Web (as Zwinkau calls it) may be, it's inaccessible for often being obscure -- difficult to find, often hard to get around, not always curated for easy reading or easy return. Yet, this aligns with my sensibilities. There's something occult-adjacent, esoteric, secret in the hidden nature of systems designed and implemented like Gemini. I find it friendly-- the same way a math problem or a difficult book which I return to over and over out of frustration becomes a confidant, an accomplice, a friend over the years. Nostalgia and tactility inform my taste, but perhaps more important is the sense of a transient community. How does this translate to the visual? How could something like time or community be held or conveyed in visual design? Though I can't see it myself, I know the image, the time-image, and the moving-image are among the most striking, immediate, and profound media for artistic expression. I don't like how much this puzzles me in such a way I don't know how to clear up my confusion.
