# Typeface Design - Jon Hoefler

the episode we watched on Jonathan Hoefler and typeface design was incredibly thought provoking and informative. First, when I think of interpretation, it's often under Sontag's essay "Against Interpretation". Hoefler shed light on how the mechanics of how we read are the mechanics of typeface interpretation -- that interpretation can be so extremely low-level, in the construction and arrangement of atomic signs like letters, blew my mind. I had so many questions-- like, how do typeface designers determine anisotropic contrast proportions such as overshoot ammounts? What's the thinking behind the tool his team is building for smart adjusting several contours in one family to generate a whole font family? His anecdotes about the watch typefaces, the adaptation of the hyper-stylized Guggenheim typeface into something more readable for signange, everything he said about MAD magazine or retro videogame typeface design -- they were endearing to say the least. There were so many keen insights he provided as well. For example, when designing a typeface, start with the O & the H -- establishing the character of the curves and stems will determine the atomic essence of your typeface. Typeface design isn't a matter of designing letters -- it's designing a system of things, a system of signs. Often when designing such an artistically dependent system, it's "hard to separate the signal from the noise" -- working with a team helps with that. The way the liht strikes a letterform afects it's aesthetic and legibility -- typeface designers have to design for all sorts of environments and applications; that's part of the sleight of hand that typographic work is all about. 
